one of the fundamental facts about
politics and human psychology is that
it's very very difficult for most people
to learn from the success of others I
don't know why that is and I can't say
that normal people find it tremendously
easy by contrast you learn from the
failure of others either hey maybe human
beings just don't like learning period
it's a bit of a bleak lesson for me to
draw him it but you know I remember kick
it off with a seemingly random example i
remember when i was in laos many many
times i was talking about politics
specific political issues and political
problems the people that you know the
government was dealing with in laos
sometimes with government officials i
was just with erudite people within that
struggling third world communist
post-war country um and you know I
noticed they would often be very
comfortable and even a little bit smug
when they themselves would make
comparisons to the United States the
United States is quite generous towards
Laos because med States has a history of
bombing at smithereens um but you know
so many of the government officials had
been on junkets unpaid trips the United
States so you know for whatever reason
the federal government States pays for
some Lao government officials to come
and attend a conference or have a tour
of a university or something and they
would always be shocked by the crowds of
homeless people and beggars that they
saw everywhere they went in the United
States and they went to some weird
places to they go to Minneapolis or some
you know by for whatever reason I think
the US federal government is a
commitment to spreading out the money
for their projects from the US oh you
know not everything is happening in New
York and Washington DC but you know they
would actually come back with quite a
smug sense that the United States is
full of beggars despite being a wealthy
country and United States is some kind
of failure and they would see how dirty
and grubby things were in the night say
something like a bus station the United
States or even the border controls and
you know they would often have a
lifetime of reading you know the very
critical pressed minute states united
states in many ways it does a great job
of broadcasting at social problems it's
constantly engaged in meditations on
poverty violence
homelessness racism I mean you know yes
the United States is a country that is
problems through racism but it's also a
country that's become tremendously
articulate in reflecting on and
meditating on its history of racism and
it's its current problems reason which
is much more positive situation than
being in a country that's sleepwalking
through those kind of those problems or
ignoring them have a lot of respect for
American culture for those reasons
really I do really I do but I noticed
when talking to Lao government officials
about political problems if you ever
suggested a positive contrast say oh
well yes but you know have you have you
looked at how that works in Switzerland
or Sweden but we talked about the Swiss
quite often because Switzerland also is
a landlocked country louses landless
wits Erland is a mountainous country you
know and they get very uncomfortable and
quite a few of the people talk to that
actually met Swiss they've met Swiss
people who were there for humanitarian
reasons or government projects of some
kind and the Swiss themselves apparently
were not humble in making such
comparisons they just say straight up
this is how we do it in Switzerland you
guys are a mess you guys are
disorganized this is pathetic you know
whatever this hospital is pathetic
compared to how we were in a hospital in
Switzerland or the way you run elections
you know talking about democracy or
freedom of the press that apparently the
Swiss I've never had this kind of
conversation with a Swiss person myself
but apparently the Swiss when they were
doing humanitarian work in that third
world context they would just
straight-up layout that everything was
better in Switzerland and I think
they're right Switzerland is a lot to be
proud of as you know they're kind of
hated within Europe and within Western
culture because of the role they played
in World War two there is certainly a
shadow hanging over them in that sense
but in terms of local democracy in terms
of how you know the mayor's office works
in terms of our decisions are taken
publicly in terms of things like
referendums I actually do not know if i
should say referenda or referendums in
my university they taught me to always
say referendums not referenda but could
be could be one of many lies that was
done university uh look now I'm sure if
I had devoted years of my life to
studying the politics
berlin in the same way that i studied
laos and cambodia that i would know
about a lot of serious social problems
political problems Switzerland also i am
not saying switzerland is is paradise by
any means but it really struck me how
uncomfortable these people were with
learning from another country success
and that all the joy drained out of the
conversation in contrast to the sort of
glee they had in trying to learn from
another countries failure and i see this
on a human scale as well i mean there's
there's been an orgy of people kind of
comparing themselves to freely and
comparing themselves to durianrider and
supposedly you know feeling that they're
they're so superior to these people but
I mean you know when I've been talking
about the present and future of veganism
social movement I've been making
comparisons to really successful social
movements I'll just stick with one of
this video could set again again mothers
against drunk driving in a very short
period of time Mothers Against Drunk
Driving had this you know tremendous
institutional and political success and
not only do they have offices all over
the United States not only do they
really have influence over government
but they have influence in the classroom
they have education programs where they
are in schools you know promoting their
propaganda frankly I mean it's
propaganda that's against drinking
alcohol I myself during 0 alcohol so you
know I sympathize must get start driving
no doubt I drink a zero alkali also dr0
cars so both sports I'm inclined to
sympathize but still it's propaganda
within the school system within the
classroom they've had this tremendous
success I mean to my no I've never seen
another vegan make that comparison it's
my pressure cooker cooking up Iran me
this is job's tears shed out to Iran me
I think that's on the official list of
superfoods for those of you who are
keeping a list of superfoods at home um
can we learn from success instead of
failure okay why is it so incredibly
rare I'm whether it's in veganism
ecology or what have you instead of
gloating over disasters instead of
gloating over failures instead of
pointing the finger and saying
you guys are doing social activism wrong
you guys are doing political lobbying
wrong why do I see so little of
examining who is doing it right and ask
the question how can we learn from their
success now I say so little aside from
my own channel I don't think I ever seen
a single example of that on YouTube and
actually I would have to think about a
long way in terms of written articles
because my I used to read on paper you
know publications about ecology animal
rights ecological activism back then we
use the word vegetarian not vegan being
strictly vegetarian but same basic
movement same thing other thing way back
in terms of reading on on paper articles
or articles now posted on the internet
even an article really doing that and as
you guys probably know I just had a
video recently talking about the issue
of slavery and the abolition of slavery
I've had in the past our videos talking
about Mohandas Gandhi the movements
political movements for independence
within the history of India when people
make those comparisons I find them
tremendously insincere silly
tremendously ignorant and a misguided
you know now someone could make a
sincere video or article really
examining the history of them the
struggle of India to liberate itself in
the British Empire I I think it'd be
incredibly difficult to construe any
meaningful parallel ISM to the struggle
that vegans are in today I think that's
why people don't do it seriously why
people just doing this facile and
insincere way they just want to bring up
the name of Gandhi because it's a famous
name and they've probably never even
read one one serious article or one
serious book about who Gandhi was and
what is political I guess he really is
just tremendously odious by the way this
is not a simple you know black and white
moral issue the legacy of who Gandhi was
and what he did it actually meant there
are many many negative aspects to it
heard of the caste system the
you know guitar called a about Gandhi
but I've done the reading and I sit back
as you guys know with some degree of
horror when I see vegans trying to
compare the future of this movement to
the Arab Spring people stood so we see
the Arab Spring I noticed you see the
Arab Spring and not the Syrian civil war
you don't name Syria you donate Egypt
you don't name Libya you don't have any
specific country as a supposed
supposedly successful examples you know
is this a success but then again we've
joined the history of India the history
of slavery what really is the comparison
you're making and in a rigorous
meaningful sense what are the lessons
you're trying to learn how do you apply
that to your vegan activism now because
ultimately as as I've said recently well
if you really believe that that violent
abolitionist movements like the
abolition of slavery if that's your
model is that how you're living because
it seems to me you know whether you're
wearing bikinis on on Instagram or
you're giving lectures and universities
I actually do not see anyone attempting
to lead an abolitionist vegan movement
in that sense a movement that really
resembles or reflects the history of how
slavery was abolished in the United
States I I don't see anyone calling for
a vegan Civil War to do so would be
madness and folly and I myself in poster
because I endorse completely nonviolent
completely democratic methods as you
guys probably know it's difficult for
people to look at examples that are more
successful in themselves I suppose
because of jealousy on some level
there's a video I was considering
putting a clip in here I think I can use
the clip a guy named Lord Jamar who's a
comments on hip hop rap culture etc guy
named Lord Jamar had some comments about
the history of the gay rights movement
and you could really hear that was kind
of jealousy in his voice he was really
effectively jealous of the tremendous
success of the gay rights movement had
in a period of just 20 years or a period
of just a few decades in contrast to
sort of a centuries-long struggle for
civil rights for black people struggle
for black people the united states that
he felt was much less successful over a
much longer period of time now I mean
you know at some level I think the vast
majority people would just say Lord
Jamar is homophobic he is I I would say
that he is he has more like a home
romania that homophobia he is
politically opposed to gay people he is
anti-gay that is one element of what's
going on here but the elements of
jealousy or refusing to learn from the
success of others is really the element
that interests me that sparks my
interest a little bit you know well
could we look at could we think about
what were the advantages and
disadvantages for why gay rights did
have tremendous you much more rapid
success than the situation of
advancement of African American people's
in the United States I think it's
actually quite easy if you sit down and
start to make a checklist there are many
many differences for one thing the
geographic distribution of homosexuals
is pretty much random and even gay
people exist everywhere in the United
States they're born and raised
everywhere and their socio-economic
distribution is also random so some gay
people are poor but some are rich their
distribution in two different types of
professions is almost random there are a
couple of professions I think we're
still today there are very very few
homosexuals or none but the point is
there are there have always been some
gay people who were lawyers some gay
people who are politicians even if they
were in the closet in the past there
have always been some gay people in
highly skilled highly educated
professions as well as throughout the
basically all other forms of working and
labor so a movement for civil rights or
just too too politically have a voice to
organize that begins with that kind it's
tremendous strength that begins with
having some essentials everywhere in
every corner of life and again this is
just cultural but I mean within the
United States I think it's true that
homosexuals were especially successful
in the city of Los Angeles and in
Hollywood and in the press you know and
there were many institutions and many
jobs were historically by contrast
especially if you want to go back to say
the 1940s that American say that
african-americans that black be were
totally excluded from where there were
none at all and another I mean really
interested in contrast just for my own
grandmother's time my grandmother's now
deceased by the way you know the
situation for Jews in United States and
Canada again just go back to the 1930s
basically before World War two
um even though there's this sort of myth
that Jews were highly highly educated
and and had all the bad you know well
represented the best jobs when my
grandmother went to college they still
had a quota on how many Jews were
allowed into the skilled professions and
trades and areas of studies now i do not
know to what extent that quota was
really originated from the Government of
Canada in Canada you know the
universities themselves the institutions
of they may have themselves just just
had that quota a lot of that kind of
quota based depression comes from a kind
of local level and may not reflect any
kind of grand government scheme and you
know so my own grandmother when she went
into a trade school basically their
attitude was okay we have our two Jews
for the year you know whatever the
number was they admitted a certain
number of Jewish people per year period
and then they refused the rest that was
that was their policy and on a more
informal level that again didn't get
handed down from the government recently
I heard a sort of autobiography from a
journalist and he was talking about in
the old days I know exactly when this
was he was saying but again this before
the conclusion of World War two that the
attitudes when he was applying for jobs
at newspapers their attitudes were oh we
already have one Jewish reporter so we
don't you there's not absolute racism
they did have one but their attitude it
was will be called tokenism today their
attitude was they had one guy already
who was Jewish so therefore they're not
going to hire anymore um so I mean this
kind of exclusion that again visibly or
invisibly in terms of the the period of
time that homosexuals had their struggle
you know it was a totally different
situation strategically from the
situation that african-americans were in
let's say again after World War two when
very very much intentional top-down
program of what's called redlining of
ghettoization of forcing
african-americans to live in some
neighborhoods and not others of refusing
to allow african-americans to have
access to loans that would allow them to
build their own houses by their own
houses owned their own houses to force
them to be renting ghettoized apartments
in neighborhoods that ultimately were
defined on a map by the United States
government at all levels that involved
the federal
government and local municipalities
local local mayor's districts and so on
um you know redlining and the impacts
that has in the fact that
african-americans were not evenly
distributed geographically or ultimately
where they were had to do with the
history of slavery but then more
recently redlining ghettoization they
were not distributed in all professions
it was just not the case in 1955 that
you had a whole lot of African Americans
who were judges and lawyers and
architects there's a very real history
of oppression of of why that was and
simply exclusion from educational
opportunities and economic oh you know
paucity of opportunities what have you
you know african-americans started off
with one of the most extreme set of
disadvantages in the world um and yes
their struggle took centuries so you
know saying even starting from this kind
of totally negative jealous ultimately
homophobic statement from Lord Jamar
where he's complaining that gay rights
as a movement as a social movement was
so much more successful short period of
time than African Americans struggle for
civil rights can we move past that can
we learn from the success of other
social movements whether it's mothers
against drunk driving or gay rights or
what have you and if we can't why not
for me right now in 2016 that's
interesting and again I'm not really
interested in keeping scorn on other
youtubers who are even less successful
than I am in terms of their political
advocacy or lobbying or or activism or
have you mean I rate my own success a
one out of 10 and other people get a 0
out of 10 but so what and you know like
you guys heard me talking about sourcing
raava I just c0 utility in my coming on
YouTube and saying so sore thumb up
you're doing it wrong you look like your
form of advocacy your form of activism
is is even more of a failure than mine I
get a 1 out of 10 but you get a zero I
mean if 10 out of 10 is Mothers Against
Drunk Driving I'm a little bit better
than zero because at least I have the
aspiration and then again people who
watch this channel watched a few videos
you know it mostly is about aspirations
but what I want
in the future it's about what I want to
do the next five years in the next ten
years in the next 30 years that's really
what this channel is about is trying to
get people excited and motivated and
ultimately organized to support
something real with real outcomes in
that future but here and now yes I could
spend hours criticizing Sorcha merova or
freely or any of these other so-called
activists for how lousy their activism
Ed's but for me it would be much more
meaningful and rewarding to do and again
i have this repeatedly to point at a
success story to say look gay rights was
really successful why and what are we
failing to do how can we learn from that
how can we adapt aspects of their
strategy so that we have the same
advantages and you guys know if you
watch this channel I've pointed out
crucially the community building
fundamental to their success having a
visible community with restaurants and
nightclubs and yes lawyers offices and
foundations real political organizations
that have a bricks-and-mortar reality to
them I think that's absolutely crucial
long-term to why gay rights was
successful in the way that it was the
fact that there is a gay district a gay
neighborhood in San Francisco or in many
many cities around the world to my I
think Rome now even has a gay district I
mean Rome Italy it's one of the most
homophobic place in the world but I know
they do have gay rights marches and what
have you gay rights becoming a gay
people going from being an invisible in
the closet community to being highly
visible highly organized highly vocal
and having real neighborhoods and your
community associations now again I think
there are also interesting questions so
I had this person writing to me from
Florida um I don't know I've actually
never do are there gay retirement homes
I don't know but I'm guessing there are
gay positive retirement homes there are
retirement homes that say look we're not
homophobic that whether they give the
rainbow logo or what that say look we do
accept elderly people who are openly gay
you don't have to be in the closet here
I think a lot of institutions it's not
that they become gay exclusive but they
find ways to communicate to their
customers that they are gay positive
that they are not homophobic and again I
think even things like hospitals I think
all kinds of services but definitely
know in terms of vacations in terms of
holidays gay positive
Resort Hotels gay positive beach
destinations they will advertise again
some of them may be exclusively gay they
may be entirely for gay people but more
commonly again there will be a rainbow
logo and there'll be something saying
look we accept gays lesbians possession
we're not we're not going to expect you
to live in the closet if you choose to
come here on vacation that can be very
important thing for people to know for
vegans it's something you can't even
stay in the closet on for one day if you
eat three meals a day right you don't
really have the option if you're gay and
you want a retirement home you
absolutely need a vegan positive
retirement home you absolutely need a
vegan positive hospital it's hell if
you're in a hospital dealing with
hospital food like your bed ridden in a
hospital or something for just two days
you have to have a friend in the
hospital go down the street buy you food
bring it back to you and come to your
bedside which by the way I did for my
wife every single day she was in the
hospital after my daughter was born all
three meals a day I was I was bringing
to my my wife's bedside she's now my
ex-wife I'm divorced blah blah blah um
you know that struggle and again
obviously for something like a vacation
if you're a single person if you're just
one adult maybe you can go on vacation
to a beach destination where have you
that's not vegan positive uh if you're a
family if you're an elderly person if
you have any other problem and and also
for your own convenience even if or so
of course you really need these
destinations to be to identify speaking
positive although again maybe it's too
much to ask that they actually be
exclusively vegan on the other hand
that's what a lot of us are really
looking for isn't it aren't a lot of us
looking for a vacation where the
destination is if not thinking about
actually exclusively vegan where the
other people we meet are gonna be vegan
where we know our money is not going to
support you know roasting a giant pig or
serving lobster because if you pay for
an all-you-can-eat buffet and you know
you're paying for meat and you see it
displayed there that's what you're
paying for that's your support it
ultimately for a vegan that's really
depressing and sad you know you go on
vacation you pay for that buffet you
personally may only choose to select the
bits and pieces that are vegan but there
it is sitting in front of you they kill
the whole pig and roasted it they
killed a bunch of lobsters and boiled
them and they're being proudly displayed
for the people to pay for this buffet uh
it said it's just fundamentally it's
it's it's not more looking for but you
know so who in any of these things who
has been successful can we learn from
that success I really encountered in
Southeast Asia members of all the
humanitarian work including research
into the evaluation of humanitarian work
and including the actual work of helping
people you know as a tremendous
reluctance with any with any specific
question that feel to start with the
question of who's already done this who
has been the most successful who sets
the standard for excellence whom we can
learn from so for any particular project
that may deal with hiv/aids may deal
with orphans me deal with still leading
starvation may deal with improving
agriculture is all sorts of humanitarian
work me deal with homeless people or
prostitution or anything else if you
start to look around say okay who has
been the most successful in this country
or in this region or you can do globally
you can look at what are the most
successful projects that have been out
there a may force you for example to
very humbly look at the success of the
Catholic Church there have been some
extremely successful charity projects
operated by Catholics Catholic
missionaries or Catholic organizations
different kinds do you have it in you
because I mean I'm but I'm biased I'm an
atheist I do not like the Catholic
Church can I set aside that bias and
learn from their success learn from what
they're doing right on every level in
terms of the fundraising in terms of
delivering the service to the people
they're helping in humanitarian work
there may be political factors etc etc
can I actually set that aside and learn
from them if you're looking at education
in any situation the best school again
with in Laos or Cambodia or with in
downtown Toronto Canada the best school
may be a religious school it may be
Catholic it may be Protestant if you're
actually looking at improving an
educational institution whether it's on
a charity basis whatever the situation
is do you have it in you to set aside
your biases and say let's look at this
school Catholic school Protestant school
this elite school and see what they're
doing right even if my objectives are to
provide
quality education to poverty stricken
people I may be biased against that
school simply because its elite I may
simply have hostility against rich
people because they're rich whatever it
is can we set that aside and learn from
the success so look in this video I've
kind of alluded to a lot of the lessons
I've learned from being mixed up in
political science and what have you but
you know one of the most fundamental
lessons I learned on this topic learning
from other people's success it really
just came from the theater and this
applies to vegans within YouTube the
digital demi-monde but this also applies
to real world activism really organizing
political foundations or would have you
for the future it's never reasonable to
expect excellence so you have to be
prepared to overcome or debunk or
dismiss people who come at you with the
excuse of well what did you expect
whether that's well what did you expect
me to do because what did you expect me
to do I'm just one activist what did you
expect me to do on my youtube channel
why did you expect it to be better what
do you expect from why should i why
should i be better why should I look up
these unreasonable expectations whether
it's on that level or whether it is um
you know on the level of the city or
specific society you represent if you
are writing theatre criticism and today
I don't even know when the Sedona of
live theater really exists anymore
because I mean obviously YouTube in many
ways has replaced life theatre people
have said for decades that television
and movies would replace live theater
but ultimately I think it's the internet
that is that is killing life theatre
live theatre we finally disappear from
the Western world in many ways um but
you know if you're gonna write criticism
of live theater in Toronto it is no
excuse for the people being criticized
to say well this is only Toronto what
did you expect expected excellence if
I'm a critic I'm looking for the best of
the best I'm I'm looking for you to do
the impossible sure but there is no
sense in which I can say well this is
only Toronto not New York City so this
performance of anton chekhov's the
cherry orchard what can you expect what
can you expect
expect excellence expect the impossible
look for it doesn't mean you have to be
a jerk about it but what we're engaged
in here you know politically or what
have you there is just no sense in which
is useful to start the process by
lowering your expectations because you
have contempt for the people involved or
because you have contempt for the the
location that's really what it is is
that somehow in New York City culture is
supposed to be more refined than it is
in Toronto or Victoria or vientiane the
capital city of Laos and it's just not
true people are people no matter where
you are the apparatus you need and let's
talk about it incredibly daunting
theatre production you're going to put
on a theatrical adaptation of the song
of ice and fire books a song and a song
of ice and fire also known as Game of
Thrones an incredibly daunting task you
know what I think you could put that on
with no set with no special effects just
actors on a black stage with a couple of
chairs and you could make it one of the
most thrilling and you know successful
theater productions of the last ten
years totally possible you know what
makes theatre great what makes theatre
excellent is not really the budget at a
minimum level you need to budget what
makes something inspiring and effective
and hopeful in political activism of
course is not really the budget although
we do need to engage in fundraising we
do need to build up the credibility and
Trust with their constituency so that we
can raise the funds so that in a sense
we have the stage to perform on so that
we have the stage in the costume so that
we can go to city hall or go to
Parliament so that we can maintain
actual political foundations actual
lobbying of government etc etc but
excellence whether it is excellence in
education excellence in the theatre
excellence in political advocacy and
activism excellence in this very strange
art form that we're engaged in on
YouTube it's always unreasonable to
expect excellence and it's always
possible for people to make this excuse
what did you
affected me as if excellence was not an
option axles was not an offer uh it's
unreasonable to expect excellence but we
go ahead you know be unreasonable expect
the best of the best and when you don't
get it as I've just been saying don't be
a jerk about it you know no there's no
point being a jerk about how much
smarter I am than Sorcha Martha what
what if I make a bunch of videos about
that what how is that going to advance
the movement how's the convince the
vegan cuz in any way don't be a jerk
about it go back to topic 1 for this
video examine what's really been
successful in this field of endeavor
whatever the field is examine the best
of the best look at key studies of
extraordinary success and don't be
jealous don't be dismissive really try
to evaluate what are the differences
what are the strategic advantages what
were the decisions that brought about
that success how can we learn from that
and adapt that to our own cause